Adding column management designs (#434)
openshift/openshift-origin-design: designs/administrator/4.6/column-management/index.md

---
parent: Administrator
version: 4.6
---

# Column Management

## Behavior

> Column management will live in the toolbar as a column icon on the Pods page on desktop. It will be hidden on mobile. Clicking on the icon will open a modal that lists all column names with checkboxes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Column management will live in the toolbar as a column icon on the relevant resource pages on desktop. It will be hidden on mobile. Clicking on the icon will open a modal that lists all column names with checkboxes.
```

Reviewer 2: @gdoyle1 is there a tooltip for the column management icon?

Author: @serenamarie125 There isn't right now. Do you think that'd be useful? PatternFly has also used a link button that says `Manage columns` in the toolbar although since we have limited space in the toolbar, it seems like the column icon button would be a better choice here

![column-management-toolbar](img/column-management-toolbar.png)

> If the user is looking at “all projects”, then the checkbox next to “name” as well as “namespace”  in the modal will be shown as checked and disabled. Hovering over it will bring up a tooltip that explains that the columns may not be edited.

Reviewer: was there any discussion around having the tool tip on the label and the checkbox to make it a bit more available?

Author: We didn't discuss that but that'd probably be an easy and worthy addition @matthewcarleton !

> ![column-management-disabled-check](img/column-management-disabled-check.png)

Reviewer 3: It sort of feel to me like the message should either include the count of total selected columns ("A total of 9 columns can be selected") or the word 'additional' or something should be in there ("You can select up to 7 additional columns"). Just a thought.

Reviewer 3: Also maybe this tooltip could say why it can't be edited? "This column is required."?

Author: @itsptk The problem is that we are hiding `namespace` column when a project is selected and so we need to keep the alert consistent with both tables (since the user technically will only be seeing 8 columns at once when a specific project is selected). If we said `a total of 9 columns can be selected` then when you switch from `all projects` to `project` you'd get a random column that falls off due to having both `name` and `namespace` disabled when in `all projects`.

Tooltip could include information of why it can't be edited! That's a good idea.

Reviewer 3: Gotcha, perhaps including "additional" in the message could still make it clear the the one/two required columns are not included in this count?

> The modal will have an informational alert by default that reads “You can select up to 7 columns”. If 7 columns have already been selected, then all checkboxes will be disabled. Once the user deselects a checkbox, the other checkboxes will return to default state (rather than disabled). 

Reviewer 3: I suspect this was probably discussed, but was it decided that not letting the user get into an error state (too many columns selected) was preferable to just letting them check too many columns and have an error and not let them save until they deselect another one?

I feel like I might come to this dialog and just want to add the Labels column, but it's disabled. Other columns are also disabled but selected and the tooltip indicates they can't be edited (but for a different reason, because they are required.) I need to determine that the max number of columns are already selected and unselect one, so that I can then select the column I want.

Alternatively, if all the columns were enabled, I would check Labels and immediately get an error inline alert telling me I have too many columns selected, which wouldn't be that big of a leap for me to understand since I just checked one, so I uncheck a different one and now the error goes away and I can save.

Author: @itsptk I played around with an error state and we discussed that - the inline alert in the modal would possible out of sight depending on where the user is selecting columns and PF doesn't have an error state for a checkbox/table so we decided to just leave it in the info alert.

Also I spoke with our content strategist Abi about the type of alert and she suggested this information alert since technically it's not an "error", it's more of a constant informational alert that the user needs to be aware of.

> ![column-management-check](img/column-management-check.png)

Reviewer: nit: Should it say `Default Pod Columns` using `Pods` sounds weird to me

Author: @matthewcarleton I don't exactly remember why we ended up going that way - I think because it made more sense when referring to that specific table and comparing it to "Additional columns"... there was definitely a lot of discussion around it which led us there

Reviewer: I'll trust the conclusion then :)

> Deselecting a checkbox will remove that column from the table view. Selecting a checkbox will add that column to the table view. Clicking “Save” will save the changes that the user has made in the modal. Clicking “Restore default columns” will restore the default settings of the columns in the pods table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deselecting a checkbox will remove that column from the table view. Selecting a checkbox will add that column to the table view. Clicking “Save” will save the changes that the user has made in the modal. Clicking “Restore default columns” will restore the default settings of the columns in the resource table.
```

![column-management-save](img/column-management-save.png)
If the page **does not** include a project selector **or** the project selector is set to anything other than “all projects”, then the “namespace” column will be hidden.
![column-management-namespace-hidden](img/column-management-namespace-hidden.png)
In this case, the modal shows that 7 columns have already been selected, so all checkboxes are disabled. The user must deselect one of the selected checkboxes in order to add a separate column.
![column-management-namespace-hidden-uncheck](img/column-management-namespace-hidden-uncheck.png)
The user has deselected “Memory”, removing it from the table.
![column-management-namespace-hidden-check](img/column-management-namespace-hidden-check.png)
The user has selected “Node”, adding it to the table.
![column-management-namespace-hidden-save](img/column-management-namespace-hidden-save.png)

> ## Relevant Resources

Reviewer 4: @gdoyle1 Since this is a 4.6 design, can we split this list up so we show the resources where column management actually got implemented, as well as the other relevant resources that are to be prioritized and added to future releases?

Author: @beanh66 just updated!
